---
title: "Ph.D. assistantship in Ecological and Evolutionary Informatics available starting Fall 2021!"
author: "A. J. Rominger"
date: "20 October 2020"
tags: positions
---


We seek an enthusiastic student interested in pursuing a PhD in the EcoEvoMatics lab (principal investigator Dr. Andy Rominger) at the University of Maine. Ideal start date is Fall Semester 2021, though an earlier start date is negotiable.

Our lab focuses on quantitative modeling and analysis of ecological and evolutionary processes, often making use of newly available biodiversity data produced through next generation sequencing approaches.  Our lab is jointly housed in the [School of Biology and Ecology](https://sbe.umaine.edu){:target="_blank"} and the [Maine Center for Genetics in the Environment](https://umaine.edu/mcge){:target="_blank"}. 

The PhD position is part of the NSF-funded $20 million [Maine-eDNA program](https://umaine.edu/edna){:target="_blank"} focused on using eDNA approaches to advance coastal ecosystem science and sustainability.  The successful applicant will join a diverse and exuberant research community and will be encouraged to forge meaningful collaborations with other members of the Maine-eDNA team.

We are seeking a student with a background and interests in *any* of the following:

- quantitative ecology and evolution
- ecological bioinformatics
- next generation sequencing-enabled biodiversity inventories
- aquatic ecology
- eco-evolutionary dynamics

Some exposure to statistics, quantitative methods, and/or programming is expected, though mastery of these tools is not required and there will be ample opportunity to continue to build and refine your skills through mentorship and collaboration in our lab.

Our lab group is committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion in science and society. We welcome applications from all backgrounds, especially those historically underrepresented in science and academia. We are also committed to the principles of open and reproducible science, which means we prioritize, whenever possible, the open sharing of data and analyses. Please read more about our [lab philosophy](https://www.ecoevomatics.org/philosophy){:target="_blank"} on our group website.

The successful applicant will have freedom to develop unique projects that match their interests within the scope of the Maine-eDNA program. Example projects include:

- Leveraging the big data integration capacity of Maine-eDNA to model processes that generate and maintain biodiversity across scales and better understand the dynamics of ecological assemblages from microbes to marine mammals
- Building ecological networks with tools from DNA metabarcoding and using these networks to understand the stability of ecological systems with relevance to the health of aquatic ecosystems under anthropogenic perturbations
- Integrating past and current population and community-wide dynamics using ecological and population genetic models to understand the future of ecosystems under climate change

This PhD position includes secure funding for stipend plus tuition and health insurance coverage through June, 2024. Annual renewal will be based on satisfactory degree and program progress. Continued funding will be procured through teaching and fellowships. The student will work with Andy Rominger to develop and execute a funding and career development plan. 

Applicants can choose between degree programs in the [School of Biology and Ecology](https://sbe.umaine.edu/graduate){:target="_blank"} or the [Ecology and Environmental Sciences Program](https://umaine.edu/ecologyandenvironmentalsciences/graduate-programs){:target="_blank"}. The successful applicant will also participate in cross-program professional development including training in research methods and communicating science to the public through a robust education and outreach program supported by Maine-eDNA.

Interested students are encouraged to send the following materials to [Andy Rominger](mailto:andrew.rominger@maine.edu):

- CV or resume
- unofficial undergraduate and (if applicable) graduate transcripts 
- a cover letter discussing their interest in joining the EcoEvoMatics lab and the Maine-eDNA program; this letter is a space to discuss your research interests, desired outcomes of a PhD in our group, and your engagement with diversity, equity, and inclusion.

Review of applications will begin January 13, 2021 and continue until the position is filled.  

Submitting the above materials does not result immediately in an application to a graduate program at the University of Maine. Instead, the EcoEvoMatics lab and Maine-eDNA graduate committee will conduct an initial screening of applicants and make recommendations for admission into a graduate program based on that process. Additional application materials may be required at that time. Please send questions about the application process to [Andy Rominger](mailto:andrew.rominger@maine.edu).

The University of Maine is an EEO/AA employer and does not discriminate on the grounds of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender expression, national origin, citizenship status, age, disability, genetic information or veteran’s status in employment, education, and all other programs and activities. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies:

Director of Equal Opportunity <br/>
101 North Stevens Hall  <br/>
University of Maine  <br/>
Orono, ME 04469-5754  <br/>
(207) 581-1226, TTY 711 (Maine Relay System)
